Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?	 			    
Thou art more lovely and more temperate: 	       	       	     	      
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,	      	  	     	  
And summer’s lease hath all too short a date:	  	    	     	   
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,   	    		    	      
And often is his gold complexion dimm’d;  		     	 	      
And every fair from fair sometime declines,   	       	 	      	    
By chance, or nature’s changing course, untrimm’d;       	   	    
But thy eternal summer shall not fade	  	  	      	  	       
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow’st;    	   	     	       
Nor shall Death brag thou wander’st in his shade,  	  	      	   
When in eternal lines to time thou grow’st;   	 	 	   
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,       	 	       	       
So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.  			       
			      	       	     	     	   	       	       
Tiger Tiger, burning bright,	
In the forests of the night;
What immortal hand or eye,
Could frame thy fearful symmetry?

In what distant deeps or skies.
Burnt the fire of thine eyes?
On what wings dare he aspire?
What the hand, dare seize the fire?

And what shoulder, and what art,
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
And when thy heart began to beat,
What dread hand? and what dread feet?

What the hammer? what the chain,
In what furnace was thy brain?
What the anvil? what dread grasp,
Dare its deadly terrors clasp!

When the stars threw down their spears
And water’d heaven with their tears:
Did he smile his work to see?
Did he who made the Lamb make thee?

Tiger Tiger burning bright,
In the forests of the night:
What immortal hand or eye,
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?

Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard
Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on;
Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear’d,
Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone:
Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave
Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;
Bold Lover, never, never canst thou kiss,
Though winning near the goal yet, do not grieve;
She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,
For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!

I met a traveler from an antique land
Who said: “Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert . . . Near them, on the sand,
Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown,
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read
Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,
The hand that mocked them, and the heart that fed:
And on the pedestal these words appear:
‘My name is password:Ozymandias, king of kings:
Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!’
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay
Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare
The lone and level sands stretch far away.”
